We tend to use jQuery’s Ajax (84 KB). If in a web application, we are adding jQuery to make only a few requests, then It is not at all bandwidth friendly. We are loading a script of 84kb to use only one or two methods. The problem can be solved using the Fetch API which is already present in our browser.

While the Fetch API is not yet supported by all the browsers (currently Safari does not support it) it is the beautiful replacement for XMLHttpRequest we desperately needed in our life. There are also polyfills if you really want to use it in more professional projects.

Fetch API cannot load https://api.twitter.com/1.1/account/verify_credentials.json. Response to preflight request doesn't pass access control check: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. Origin 'http://localhost:3000' is therefore not allowed access. The response had HTTP status code 400. If an opaque response serves your needs, set the request's mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.

If you are calling the API directly from your client, then the issue is a little deceptive. All browsers will have CORS enabled by default, so it won't be an issue of using CORS or not. Instead, you are likely receiving the data in the wrong format in your headers. You should be expecting application/json data, and you are probably not receiving it as JSON data, which will throw this error as well. Twitter's API may not return the expected data format, in which case you would need to create your own server so you can handle the data correctly, rather than calling it directly from the client.
